Add shadowrootslotassignment attribute (#43753)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmltemplateelement/shadowrootslotassignment/index.md

---
title: "HTMLTemplateElement: shadowRootSlotAssignment property"
short-title: shadowRootSlotAssignment
slug: Web/API/HTMLTemplateElement/shadowRootSlotAssignment
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.HTMLTemplateElement.shadowRootSlotAssignment
---

{{APIRef("Web Components")}}

The **`shadowRootSlotAssignment`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLTemplateElement")}} interface reflects the value of the [`shadowrootslotassignment`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/template#shadowrootslotassignment) attribute of the associated [`<template>`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/template) element.

Note that this property is not useful for developers.
If a `<template>` element is used to declaratively create a [`ShadowRoot`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/ShadowRoot), then this object and property do not exist.

> Otherwise, if an `HTMLTemplateElement` is created, the value of this property is irrelevant because the object is not a shadow root and cannot subsequently be changed to a shadow root. It can be used to detect support for the declarative attribute.

Reviewer: This PR was was quite helpful for me while trying to figure how to assign `shadowrootslotassignment` into web-features. Thank you! But after reading this, it sounds like it _does_ have some utility to developers and it might be better to start with that information. Something along these lines:

> The **`shadowRootSlotAssignment`** property of the `HTMLTemplateElement` interface reflects the value of the `shadowrootslotassignment` attribute of the associated `<template>` element. You can use its existence to detect support for the `shadowrootslotassignment` attribute.
> 
> You can't use this to use this to change…

(This is a drive-by suggestion from someone who knows very, very little about the shadow DOM. Take it with a grain of salt. 😅)

Reviewer 2: UPdated in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43753/changes/2f3331aa5a1a5eedf75e5560d7d09391c0208598 to show the only use - feature checking

> Otherwise, if an `HTMLTemplateElement` is created, the value of this property is irrelevant because the object is not a shadow root and cannot subsequently be changed to a shadow root. It can be used to detect support for the attribute, used declaratively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Otherwise, if an `HTMLTemplateElement` is created, the value of this property is irrelevant because the object is not a shadow root and cannot subsequently be changed to a shadow root. It can be used to detect support for the declarative attribute.
```

---
title: "HTMLTemplateElement: shadowRootSlotAssignment property"
short-title: shadowRootSlotAssignment
slug: Web/API/HTMLTemplateElement/shadowRootSlotAssignment
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.HTMLTemplateElement.shadowRootSlotAssignment
---

{{APIRef("Web Components")}}

> The **`shadowRootSlotAssignment`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLTemplateElement")}} interface reflects the value of the [`shadowrootslotassignment`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/template#shadowrootslotassignment) attribute of the associated [`<template>`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/template) element.

Reviewer 3: This page starts in a confusing manner. Don't start by telling me it reflects the value of the `shadowrootslotassignment` attribute, as that doesn't tell me what it does. Put that bit at the end of the intro, and instead start with a description of what the `shadowRootSlotAssignment` property does.

Reviewer 2: Fair. I didn't because the main property of this property is that it is useless. I'll fix.

Reviewer 3: This is much better now.

> This property can be used to detect support for the declarative attribute.

Reviewer 3: How? Maybe link "detect support" to the basic example later?

Reviewer 2: I don't think so.

> The property has no other purpose for developers:

Reviewer 3: This section is confusing; I don't really get how the bullets relate to the statement "The property has no other purpose for developers:"

Reviewer 2: Basically you'd think this was useful for working out if the shadow root uses named or manual (unnamed) assignment (I wonder if I should globally change to refer to manual rather than unname?)

It isn't though because `<template>` creates a shadow root then this object doesn't exist.

I've rewritten in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43753/changes/efb1525dc26908d55718e279fca916f9053f0612

> - If a `<template>` element is used to declaratively create a [`ShadowRoot`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/ShadowRoot), then no instance of this object and property exist.

Reviewer 3: what object and property?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If a `<template>` element is used to declaratively create a [`ShadowRoot`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/ShadowRoot), then no instance of the `HTMLTemplateElement` interface is created (or this property on it).
```

> - If an `HTMLTemplateElement` is created, the value of this property is irrelevant because the object is not a shadow root and cannot subsequently be changed to a shadow root.

Author: I guess also (at a stretch) these IDLs can be useful for constructing a `<template>` using DOM APIs to be later serialised and potentially parsed as a DSD; something like:

```js
const t = document.createElement('template');
t.shadowrootmode = 'open';
t.shadowrootslotassignment = 'manual';
// ... other things ...
t.outerHTML // <-- this is kind of useful? Maybe in Deno?

someElement.setHTMLUnsafe(t.outerHTML) // <-- parses this as a shadowroot!
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks. I don't think we want to say too much here. I'll just weaken the statement to "generally not useful".

## Value

A string that reflects the value of the [`shadowrootslotassignment`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/template#shadowrootslotassignment) attribute of the associated [`<template>`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/template) element. Possible values are `"named"` and `"manual"`.

> ## Example

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Examples
```

> ### Basic usage

Reviewer 3: Maybe something a bit more descriptive, like

```suggestion
### Feature detection for `shadowrootslotassignment`
```

?

This code shows how you can check if the [`shadowrootslotassignment`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/template#shadowrootslotassignment) attribute is supported on {{htmlelement("template")}} elements.

```js
const isShadowRootSlotAssignmentSupported = Object.hasOwn(
  HTMLTemplateElement.prototype,
  "shadowRootSlotAssignment",
);

> ```

Reviewer 3: Explain it a bit, to show what you'd then do with this feature detection?

Reviewer 2: Done in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/43753/changes/efb1525dc26908d55718e279fca916f9053f0612

Probably very little, though I indictated perhaps "try a fallback".

Reviewer 3: That's exactly what I was hoping for, nice.
